SPDX Defects Team meeting - 30th March 2022 (#143)
spdx/meetings: defects/2022-03-30.md

* Anthony: we will likely need to revise original proposal from 2.3 anyway. Let's choose something and get feedback for 2.3.1.
* Thomas: minimum types are a must have from what I've seen in the community.
* Rose: strong preference for `url` vs `web` as one of the default options. Consensus from the group to use `url`.
* `url` definiton: "web page related to the vulberability of unspecified kind"
  * Dick: could this be an API call? Propose "link returns a security related artifact interpreted by the end user'
  * Proposed definiton: "A reference to related security information of unspecified type"
* Jeff: Advisory vs disclosure: purpose is to articulate cyclonedx document, vdr or csaf document. Not sure disclosure is the appropriate term to link to that type of document.
* Dick: we need to provide some specific vulberability disclosure reporting for the NTIA executive order. 
* Jeff: EO does not require vulnerability status; advisory and url could convey the same information OR we could use status.

> * Dick: vulnerability IS required

Reviewer: REF: Vulnerability Disclosure reporting is indeed required by Executive Order 14028:
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/05/17/2021-10460/improving-the-nations-cybersecurity#p-72
(viii) participating in a vulnerability disclosure program that includes a reporting and disclosure process;

* Karsten: Advisory is actions to take to mitigate vulberability (recipe to resolve what the disclosures are). Disclosure is the list of vulnerabilities (discloses what they are).

> * Jeff: as an industry, these terms are overloaded so hesitatnt to say the SPDX should standardize which terms are used and the nuances of them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Jeff: as an industry, these terms are overloaded so hesitant to say the SPDX should standardize which terms are used and the nuances of them.
```

* Jeff: using ISO terms we might get closer to a consensus so we are not introducing ambiguity with overloaded terms
* Dick: Cdx VEX is a good example - it can be issued in response to vulnnerability being reported but you can also take the other position - can issue a cdx VEX that is product centric with list of vulnerablities in product. Advisory is vulnerability specific. Disclosure is tied to a specific product.
* Anthony: Advisory tends to come from a vendor; but I may want to know the vuln status of a product which uses components from muliple vendors, so I think we need two terms
* From: ISO 29147 standard:  Disclosure - act of initially providing vulnerability  information to a party that was not believed to be previously aware  Advisory - document or message that provides vulnerability information intended to reduce risk. An advisory is meant to inform users or other stakeholders about a vulnerability including, if possible, how to identify and remediate vulnerable systems.
* Jeff: if we use the term VEX perhaps we get around this confusion? 
  * Karsten: We should use semantic definitions instead of standards (Rose +1)

> * Karsten: use advisory and discosure and see how it develops. Do not have definitons but we should provide definitions with references to the different stanards we see as evidence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Karsten: use advisory and disclosure and see how it develops. Do not have definitions but we should provide definitions with references to the different standards we see as evidence
```
